Hello, everyone.
Welcome to this problem f you and see us so else this means our longest common subsequent rate.
So if I have two strings we have been given to a strings.
S&P find one longest string that is the subsequent soft boot S&P rates.
So basically the longest common subsequent which is present in both of the strings.
What is the difference between subsequent and surpassing?
So for a subsequent what are going to have we going to have to do the power ends up sequences.
So if I have a BCD, that means a, a, the subsequent, B, the subsequent, b, c is a, subsequent
b, b, the subsequent eight.
So basically, all these places have two options, and that will come in the subsequent order, not
come in the subsequent third is doing the two into two into two, which is sort of the power forward
in this case, which is 68.
So it includes an empty substring, also an empty string also, which is also a subsequent of the string
nature.
An empty string can also be a subsequent eight.
So if I say if I have two strings A, B, C, D and E, F, G, H, this is S and this is what is the
longest common.
So in this case, what is the longest common subsequent in this case goes.
It's zero eight.
There is nothing in common.
That means an empty subsequent is common in both which has length of z2.
Eight.
So let's come back to the problem.
Yeah.
So we have been given dosing.
We have to find the longest common subsequent.
It's a very, very standard problem.
Generally what happens is we are asked to find the length of the longest common subsequent instead of.
The.
Subsequently it's a rate so as already I've already like.
Explained how to trace back rate.
There's what we will do.
Firstly, you will find the length of the longest common subsequent and then we trace back their length
that particular land.
Where is it coming from?
And when we see those connections then we'll be tracing back and we will take those characters into
our strings.
So yeah.
So what are the constants?
SNP are strings containing lowercase letters.
So we have 26 characters and the length of would S&P is less than equal to 2000.
So that means s and squared can, right.
That is 3000 to 3000 converge.
It will be nine, six, eight.
So it's a very famous problem, guys.
And most of you might know this too, but here it is just to like trace it back.
We need to trace it back.
Eight So print one longest string there is subsequent of all this insti if they're multiple testing,
any of them will be accepted grading eight So if there are multiple, of course there can be multiple.
Let me give you an example.
Because.
Longest comments I've seen has a fixed length.
Great length cannot be multiple because there will be one maximum, but the strings can be multiple
night.
For example, if I have ABCD and I have, let's say a.
Be.
Eddie.
Hey.
So here.
Okay, here I am, getting three.
Okay.
So let me.
Or reverse this.
What I get is I get.
And their b.
E.
B.
D.
Really?
Or I did.
Eddie.
Right in both cases.
And I don't think there's any other idea.
Or maybe it's not possible.
Why?
Because in the subsequent case, the order matters, right?
It Abi's Nazim is Bea.
Abi's different from Bea.
Right because they are not the same things in subsequent.
Always remember that order matters.
But I hope you understood the difference between subsequent seasons of things.
So let's move forward.
What I have here is those strings.
Great.
Well, first of all, we will, like, try to generalize it by writing a normal recursion and then will
memorize it.
Not a big deal.
Okay, so before then, let's understand this.
How does it work?
Hey, so some of you might have known the table approach of the tabulation approach in which we are
starting from the top left corner and filling according to the constraints.
But I'll do the different I do the just opposite approach, which is that because of approach, which
will ultimately help you understanding the tabulation approach.
Right.
So here I was doing this and I think this is.
B.
By X.
Yeah.
What else is I first of all, define a function, right?
So what should that function be?
That was the output that we want.
The longest thing that is subsequent about a century.
So what I will do is I simply ask, what is the length of the longest thing?
So as I told you, if I'm able to find the length and then I am able to trace back where that length
come from, and I can simply make the same to say you'll see this in know is it?
Don't worry.
So let's define a function called F and.
Um.
Yeah.
So let's see if I go.
Maggi.
Here, I'll pass two variables which are islands, and these variables will see it.
What?
Is the land.
Of longest.
Barman.
A sequence.
S of zero do I that means only this prefix of as is considered till I rate it means I it index and.
EOF zero two JS considered.
So basically what have what's happening here?
I'm trying to find out the length of the longest comment subsequent, if I'm certain, as is considered
and some certain.
But if is considered starting from Maryland and not starting from the end, I'm saying if some 13 prefix
are both, these things are considered.
So there will be a final answer.
If I talk about the final answer, it will be if I if I say the index is zero based or let's do one
based, one this indexing.
Well.
So the final answer will be at F.F. and Goma.
And what is anyway and is the length of office.
And Emmis is linked with.
So now let's come to this approach where it is eVerify, is it?
It is a length of the longest common subsequent if if s of some prefix s is considered and some prefix
is considered, when always let's find let's figure out the solution.
So here I have.
E x y b e b vi x.
So listen to this very carefully, because it will help you solve various problems, various problems
regarding strings, maybe on strings.
So let me give you an example of a problem.
It's called interleaving leaves, I guess, in the leaving strings.
After solving this, just move on to this problem, which is interleaving.
Things only good.
It's interleaving only, I guess.
So it's kind of very similar problem and the approach that I'm going to tell you this will help you
solve various problems on our divisions.
What is it?
First of all, we start from F of.
Zero.
What I can say is.
Yeah.
What I'll do is.
Let's start from the zero eight index.
And what does this mean?
Okay, so indexing is one base rate for this meager table.
Leslie, let's make a table.
Then we'll discuss the recursive approach to.
And then what we'll do is we'll like good both of them.
There shouldn't be anybody.
Let's make the tabular approach first and.
So as has lent for sort of let me give some indexes.
And the length of.
Okay.
So.
It's important the table.
I have this fire and this is six.
Insert cable is five rows.
Yes.
And it's expanded a little.
Okay.
Let's index them one by one.
So this is zero one, two, three and four.
But why am I starting it from zero?
Because zero represents an empty string.
So let's say that zero represents an empty string.
Eight.
And one represents the first year.
Next year I have e.
So let me write it also here.
X, Y, Z.
And similarly, let's index the right part of it.
-- again.
Start starting from zero.
So here I have this thing, which is a.
B, y x.
B Well, so let's talk about the zero true rate, the zero true.
So what should be in the zero rule?
So let's come back to this.
Statement that the length of the longest common subsequent if.
S of this is considered anti of this is considered eight.
So as I said, that zero represents an empty thing.
So let's say s of zero is equal to two.
You have zero wages and I am destroying it.
So what is the length of the longest common subsequent?
In this case?
It will be zero.
Eight.
As zero basically f00 is zero y because both are empty.
There is nothing which is common right now.
Let's talk about f01.
What does this mean?
That when I have an empty string and at the second place I have a that's what one means, right?
It means the if I consider the length of B to be one that has only one character in it, it will contain.
Or does the lender, the government, think it is?
085 because here I am destroying.
So now let's consider the zero comma two place, which means that if I consider as to be an empty string
and B to be a B, because we are moving to the second place, we have to take the prefix string.
What is the length of the longest common subsequent zero?
Right.
So with an empty string it will be zero.
Similarly, with an empty string moving downwards, it will be zero y because these cells.
Let's talk about the cell for common zero.
This represents the B's empty here.
And Ford is s, that is X, Y, Z.
So there is nothing common between a string and an empty string.
So it has to be zero.
I hope you got these biscuits.
These are the normal biscuits and.
Yeah.
Let's move forward.
And.
Think about this.
Eight.
Which is one comma.
Once in.
It goes.
Now, here's the main part, of course.
How is F of one?
Common one is being formed.
We have to think about the transitions right there.
How is f of one come up?
One is being formed.
Eight.
There are.
Two is already highlighted three ways to eliminate one of the three ways it can be formed.
If I see their.
If I see that again, give me the length of the longest.
Okay, so quickly, let me.
Give you another explanation of it.
So what is the one when it is a coma?
It in both these things.
So this is fingers and this this thing.
In both these things, I have any on the board on board the seats because I know I'm talking about f
of one comma one.
So where does everyone go when this and this?
Ladies, this is I for one moment.
This means this much seeing these considered and this much as is considered the how how can I form this
much the and this much is there are two ways of it.
They their.
I will simply say that I heard an MP sing s first and sing E and I appended it with.
This is a first approach, right?
It can be the longest moments of sequence if that particular part of it is considered.
That means do you consider one index and as is considered, do zero index and I'm simply appending after
it.
Second part of it is.
If S is a these empty and I'm appending after it.
Hey.
So, yeah, let me raise this.
Well.
And what does it hurt bad guys if.
We know that both Ayeni is at sea.
Then the third part is simple.
That if.
Both of them are empty right now and I'm simply burning after them.
And I'm burning after both of them to the length of the longest comment subsequent increases.
So again, let me repeat it.
When I have two characters right now or both of these characters, it would be good, right?
So how can I how can I make Swing E and A in both the yes?
So in essence, what I can do is I had an empty string earlier and I'm simply a binding e in the iron
and and destroying a layer.
I am simply appending it.
And what's the second case?
Second case is if I had this string in S and it in B, so I'm not appending anything anywhere.
And otherwise the next case is if I had in this and empty string in the D and again I'm not appending
anything anyway.
These are the three cases in which we can region two is right.
We have basically we have three options.
So.
After this.
What we do is first we completely establish an approach.
We will move on to the recursive approach, which is far more simpler than this.
But what so what happens is I simply if both these characters are same, if I have two, is that means
if both these characters are same, then I can include them in my longest common sub sequence.
Right?
So if both the characters, which is A s of A is equal to T of g, that means give me that.
What is the longest comments of sequence?
Well, I'm minus one and minus one eight.
And give me what is the longest common subsegments in the previous two places and add one.
Right.
As if both these characters are not same.
Then what I'll do is if.
As what is that is Kasia.
And she simply means that these two characters are not same.
That means essay's not equal to these essays, not equal to T.J..
What does it mean that I can up an essay after considering the T.
D sync or I can append easy after considering this a string that means it can be maximum both.
Right?
In other words.
In other words, in like simple English, it means that added.
It means that right now I'm taking S&P in the longest government's subsequent rate.
That's why I added one year.
So right now, if I'm on some characters and they're not equal, I considered one to the longest Goldman
substituents because both of these characters cannot be taken into the longest Goldman subsequent.
If both of them cannot be taken, then they should be.
The answer kept.
The answer should be added.
Max of f of I minus one.
Gee, that means I'm simply not including S8.
So this means I'm not including.
Essay into my longest comment subsequent.
Late or what happens is what is this the way it is edited?
You do not include.
Don't include.
Easy.
Eight.
So it is fourth day, minus one.
Right, guys.
Why did I do I.
Minus one.
Minus one here.
Because now I'm adding the both these characters.
So I'll say, okay, these are the same problem, Steve.
Both of these strains.
And tell me that what is the.
What is the longest moments of sequence of both these things and add one to them because I'm adding
both these characters to the previous things, right?
Or the answer can be maximoff.
F r you minus one g which means och considers consider listing dil the only.
But consider listing added means consider this thing s of zero.
Do I.
Or consider this thing which is b of zero to.
So it is a minus one way.
So just consider the privacy part.
That means I'm not including the Iot character in my longest common subsequent.
I'm simply removing it.
Eight.
So these are the three options that we have, either include both of them together or do not include
any one of them.
They don't include that or don't include this or don't include both of them.
Eight.
So let's come back to this table and let's flip, fill it one by one.
What is a in this case, guys?
When I'm talking about 411, what we have is we have equal to here because essays equals rupees.
So what happens when essays equal strategic?
They simply take the diagonal value, which is a four by minus one G.
Minus one G minus one, which stores the best answer for the previous prefixes of S.A.?
And I add one to it, so I'll have one over Y because ain't what these A's seem.
And so that means I'm including both these A's and upending them after the longest comment subsequent
which ended it.
This place ain't.
Now.
Let's talk about one gunman, two bodies.
And so here I have A and B to be seem so the NBA not equal essays not equal to teaching.
What happens when essays not equal duty g.
We take Max off.
For Fi minus one g.
That means if a few minutes one day means this part.
Eight.
Tell me, what is the maximum subsequent if I considered this much to end this much as.
Okay and do not and we react that it normal, right?
So what is the maximum to zero or.
The next is F off I go mountain j minus one y it is I going to do minus one that do not add the g connected
in to my longest comment subsequent.
So this is.
Are you going to do minus when this fight like this much de and this much as so what was the end of
the longest game and subsequent?
If this much the end as much as is considered it is one ultimately at one of it I invite because max
of both this are.
But I hope you're getting this through for any.
Sell a comedy if both these are equal.
I'm simply asking for this solution.
Eight.
This plus one.
Otherwise, I'm taking the maximum of this or this.
So similarly, what we'll have is we'll have one, one, one or whatever because is never equal.
And let's move on to X again.
Let's talk about this place.
We just have one place here.
What I'll have is both of them are not equal, while the maximum of both eight and similarly maximum
both.
Maximum both.
But nowadays you can see that to four is equal.
Eight we have s of two equals two so as to offer the here what is the case?
If both of them are equal, I can simply I can simply appended to the.
Longest common subsequently which is being made by this particular.
Strings, which is this and this.
So what is the length of the longest common subsegments which is made by these things?
It is kept over this place.
Right.
So what is the word?
What it is, it is one.
So I have simply one plus one with just two.
So basically I'm adding X to the length of the longest common sequence for the previous strings.
Right, guys.
Well, let's move forward.
Nevada, I have X and be here.
I'll get the maximum of two and it is too late.
So whenever we are getting an increment, it is because of the diagonal element, the diagonal element
by because we have the same characters are abandoning them.
Okay, so I'll help you trace back and it will become more clear when you trace it back.
Let's fill this table quickly.
We have by and read by and be again one vine by.
Right now I can have two.
Then we have X and Y.
So again, I going have two, maximum is two and then I can have been, but again the maximum is two.
So this is again B anyway.
So we have maximum one.
So I hope you're getting this vibe.
We got one away.
We got one over here.
Because let's consider this these two things.
What does the maximum comment subsequent in these two listings?
It is a very this is coming from here.
This is coming from here.
This is coming from you.
When we are moving upwards, that simply means that I'm not including these characters when we are moving
leftwards in this table.
That means I am not including these characters.
But when I'm going diagonal, I'm moving to this place, which is F of a minus one and minus one.
That means I'm including the current character.
Right.
Eight silver.
Communities despite.
There.
I have one again.
I'll have one.
I'd like to.
Okay.
So I'd be ready to be an ex again.
Now being be.
It is a good place to start.
It is two plus one.
It is three.
Right.
So finally what we got is the length of the longest gun and subsequent history.
Now, that is the most important part.
Let's trace it back from where is it actually coming?
Okay, so how do I trace it back?
I start from the last three and then I check.
Where is this tree coming from?
Is it coming from this, these two places?
No.
Right by.
Because when we are talking about these two places that is up in the left side place, which is I minus
one G and I go magic minus one.
So these two places, we get maximum of these two places, but this is three and the maximum is too.
That means these two these two characters were equal.
So it has come from the diagonal element.
So let's move diagonally.
Now, guys, this two.
We can see it is VI and X.
These two are not equal.
That means this two has not come from the diagonal element, nor does it ever came from the above or
from the left hand side.
So here we have two options.
I can go up also.
I can go left also.
Right.
So let's go anywhere.
It doesn't matter.
Let's move up.
So when we moved diagonally backwards, that means they included being too along this common up sequence.
And then I'm moving up, and when I'm moving left, it means I'm not including that character.
Eight or two.
Yeah.
Now we have X in x eight, so both of them are equal.
That means this is coming from the diagonal element.
So again, I've included X into my longest common up sequence.
Now, this one has come from this one.
This one has come from this one, but this one has gone from zero.
So we are moving diagonally.
And also I simply include the character here, which is a.
Okay.
So what is the length of the longest common subsequent record?
We got XP.
Always when we trace back, will get a divorce kind of thing, then we'll reverse this later.
So, yeah, so we've got ex-FBI.
I wish I.
We are getting this part like.
When we are coming diagonally, we are including that element because it has to be including the longest
comment subsequent given by the previous strings of borders in other ways.
If that is not.
It is either coming from the top or the left side, which is F4 y, minus one j or a comma minus one.
This simply means that I'm not including the current character.
Right.
So yeah, this was about the ALP's yes.
Abolition approach.
And now let's discuss the recursive approach.
Hey.
Okay.
So let's discuss the legacy approach in the next tutorial in which I look forward to seeing the next
part.